In the earlier videos,
in this section of the course.
I stated the checked exceptions in a method
must be either core or handled in the method
or the method must declare a throws clause
in the declaration.
In this video we're going to take a closer look at methods
and the throws clause.
So we need to start off by creating a new class
in our exceptions project.
I'm gonna call it throws clause example.
(keyboard clicking)
Well it's, I can see there we've got a public class
throws clause example and we've got four classes
in formality as you can see there.
Now what they're doing is essentially,
creating a custom version of an appropriate to class.
And we've got the runtime exception,
which we're extending for our class a custom
runtime exception.
It's got a constructor which then calls super to initialise
and we're doing the same next for the exception class,
a custom checked exceptions is the name.
We've got a constructor for that as well
and call it the super again to initialise that.
Next we've got a throwable.
So basically a customer throwable,
which extends the throwable class constructor
and under initialization by using super
and forth, we've got this custom error class and error.
It's called extending the error class with a constructor
and calling the super to initialise it.
Now come back to this main method shortly,
but we've also got four methods down here.
For starting with method one that's throws
an unchecked runtime exception.
Method two throws a checked exception
and it must satisfy catch or specify.
So he we're catching.
Method three so we moved down.
That throws throwable, it must satisfy catch or specify
and he was specifying as you can see by the throws clause
and method for just throws an unchecked error.
Right.
Can you back to our main method?
So executing each statement in a four loop
as you can see there, and depending on the number
recording the appropriate method.
Method one, two, three or four.
The other thing we're actually doing in here,
is we're gonna try catch embedded here,
so execution of the followup
continues after we catch each exception.
All right, so let's actually run this now.
All right, I can see the output there
and we've got the four methods called
and the results of calling them in the output pile.
All right, so now that we've done that,
let's actually make this catch clause on line 62.
Make it a little bit more specific.
And this again is from the four loop.
Change throwable.
We've got to make that runtime exception.
It doesn't want to do that.
Suddenly we've got a problem with method three.
It's actually a compiler error.
Unhandled exception throws clause example dot
A custom throwable.
So that's our method three now, which is complaining.
And obviously in that code you can see with throwing
the new A custom throwable.
So this confirms that we have to catch the throwable object
or specify that our main method throws a throwable.
So let's do the lighter here.
So you gonna back up to our main method declaration,
up here and I'm gonna add throws,
throwable.
Which gets rid of the compiler error.
If you run the code now.
Note near now that we've done that execution
has in fact stopped at method three.
So in other words, method four didn't get invoked there
and that's because we then are throwing
the throwable error based on what we've done
to the main method declaration.
So let's try a different approach there.
So I'm going to undo that last change.
So remove the throw throwables in the declaration
and we're back here to our main method.
The actual code in the four loop.
It is growing at a little bit more here.
So we'll actually change now our catch clauses
what I'm gonna do, at the moment you can see
we've just got runtime exception.
So let's add some additional catches there.
I'm just gonna paste in a total of three of them,
which will be including existing runtime exception.
So I'm gonna paste that over the top there replacing them.
So you can ask me about catching runtime exception,
a custom throwable, and also catching an error.
So as you can see, each catch declaration uses more specific
exception types and not throwable and an error for example,
are being pretty specific here.
So we run this again now.
This time you can see now four methods
all four have now executed again the so far so good,
but with that said, what happens if we have both
a runtime exception clause and a custom
runtime exception clause in other ways,
the regular runtime exception and our custom class.
Well let's try adding that down the bottom.
All right, I'm just going to paste it down here.
You see I've added a custom on time exception.
We still got the runtime exception at the top there
on line 62 so if you hover over that,
so you've got a compiler error,
throws clause example dot A custom runtime exception
has already been caught.
So from this we've learned that the order of the catch
statements is very important, because we specified
the runtime exception is the first clause at the top there.
The more specific a custom runtime exception
would never get executed.
So let's change the order and you should define your clauses
from most specific to the least specific.
So I'm just going to paste in the order
rather than changing the code.
I'll just paste in the a change code,
like so.
So you learning that a custom throwable is at the top
and error a custom runtime exception
and then the fourth one was the runtime exception.
We've no longer got a compiler error now.
And if we run this,
we can say we've got our output
and we can clearly say the output
a custom runtime exception there.
All right, so that's working.
Well so let's go back down and look at method two.
So I can see here we've caught and handled the exception.
Let's change this code to throw another exception
after catching the one thrown.
So just going to paste in a replacement method,
which is very similar to what we had.
So you can see what we're doing now.
Essentially it's that line 100 right now throwing
a custom runtime exception after catching
the a custom checked exception.
And if we run this now,
you see we now caught that extra exception with now got
a total of five there.
You can see a customer runtime exception has been,
basically executed more than once.
We'll throw on more than once in the output.
So there's no limit to how many try catch clauses
and error can be propagated to.
So keep it in mind.
Now finally I just want to mention that a method
can throw multiple exceptions in a comma delimited list.
So we go back and look at method three.
Let's just change that.
I'm going to change the declaration but also add
a little bit of code to generate another error.
19 now.
We've got multiple exceptions that can be thrown there
and their declaration alarm 107.
And you can say here that we're actually throwing
two exceptions even at the moment only one,
will actually be executed based on the programme flow
we've set up.
Run this.
You see that it was the a custom runtime exception
that was actually thrown from method three.
I see that in there.
Okay.
All right, So in this video we discussed
the four types of errors that can be thrown.
Throwable error exception, which isn't runtime exception
and runtime exception.
And I demonstrated customising each of the types.
Throwing each of the tops from methods,
identifying which of the four are considered checked,
and the additional requirements to satisfy the compiler
when they are checked.
Adding one or more exceptions to the throw clause,
of a method declaration.
And finally testing multiple clauses associated
to a single trial clause, noting that order matters
and you should declare exceptions in the catch clauses
in order of most specific to the least specific.
So let's end the video here in the next one.
We're gonna talk about exception handling
extras in some bar constraints as well.
See you in the next video.